---
layout: post
title: "Big News: McIlroy is Europe's 'complete leader' in Ryder Cup"
date: 2025-09-29T18:37:15
author: "badely"
categories: [Sports]
tags: []
excerpt: "Three-time Ryder Cup winner Graeme McDowell says his compatriot Rory McIlroy's influence among the European team is a crucial one."
image: assets/images/15dabec0eb888631b8a5c445c297457f.jpg
---

According to new developments, McIlroy played in all five rounds of matches at the 2025 Ryder Cup

Graeme McDowell has praised Rory McIlroy as the driving force among Europe's playing group after his fellow Northern Ireland man played a huge part in Luke Donald's side defeating the United States of America 15-13 at Bethpage Black to retain the Ryder Cup. 

Playing in his eighth Ryder Cup and against the backdrop of a hostile crowd in New York, an inspirational McIlroy won three and a half points out of four in his pairs matches to help the Europeans to a commanding 11.5 to 4.5 lead going into the 12 singles contests.

The five-time major winner lost by one hole to world number one Scottie Scheffler on Sunday but joined the celebrations after the visiting team had secured a famous victory, their first in America since Medinah in 2012.

"There are great leaders who have come through those European team rooms. Rory has obviously turned into Europe's absolute leader, leading by example, by the way he plays, the way he conducts himself," three-time Ryder Cup winner McDowell said of his compatriot.

"What he went through in New York at the weekend was obviously very difficult, the way the crowds were obviously shouting and going after him.

"But he just continues to be the complete golfer, the complete leader, the type of experience in the team room that can take rookies under his wing."

Two more years? Europe captain Donald not ruling out third term

Ryder Cup fan behaviour unacceptable - McIlroy

'In Donald we trust' - how Europe's 'best-ever captain' masterminded win

McDowell competed in four Ryder Cups between 2008 and 2014, picking up nine points from 15 matches, and his success over Hunter Mahan in the final singles match at Celtic Manor in Wales in 2010 closed out victory for the Europeans.

He went on to serve twice as a vice-captain - under Thomas Bjorn in 2018 and under Padraig Harrington for the 2020 Ryder Cup in 2021.

His experiences from those encounters and his observations of events since give him an insight into the spirit among European teams and the recipe for success in the febrile atmosphere generated by the competition.

"The European system that has been developed is obviously turning into something very robust. Take the chemistry of partnerships and developing great relationships.

"Eleven of the 12 players who competed in Rome [in 2023] competing again for Europe in this Ryder Cup, something that has never been done before, and look at the results.

"It was an incredible first four sessions, the domination. Clearly that's not something a team can do every year so you're always having to cycle new players in and out, figure out the chemistry between them, put great pairings together, continue to be a dominant force in the foursomes."

Traditionally Europe have been more successful in the pairs formats of the event, with the United States often enjoying the upper hand in the singles, as was the case in the 2025 edition.

"Friday and Saturday are huge days because you lay the foundation down for what Sunday's singles can be," reflected the 2010 US Open champion. 

"America are historically a little stronger in singles over the years but Europe laid the foundations down in those pairings. It comes down to understanding what makes a great pair, and that comes from all the analytics.

"But there's so much more to that. It comes from the great friendships that are struck up in the team rooms, the camaraderie. 

"The players come from all over Europe - different countries, different cultures and different backgrounds. They all come together."

Graeme McDowell pictured at the 2018 Ryder Cup when he was a vice-captain and McIlroy was a member of the team

Donald has led Europe to triumphs in Rome and New York and McDowell recognises some of the qualities that have seem him emulate the achievement of former captain Tony Jacklin in 1985 and 1987.

"Luke is obviously a guy that demands a lot of respect from these players in a very quiet, humble kind of way," said the 46-year-old LIV Golf player.

"Saying things quietly but from a very confident, experienced point of view.

"There's so much goes into being a captain, being the leader of a team, the way everyone needs managed just a little bit differently, guys in the room that need to know exactly what is expected of them, others that are very flexible, you can throw them a curveball and they will adapt."

The next staging of the Ryder Cup will be at Adare Manor in Ireland in 2027.

"As we look to 2027, will Luke Donald go again? That would be unprecedented obviously. It would be historic," said McDowell.

"Clearly Luke is a great captain. The players speak so highly of him, it's clear he communicates well with these guys and lays down an environment for them to be the best they can be.

"It'd be amazing to see him go again on a lot of levels." 

