---
layout: post
title: "New: Forest Green Rovers' all vegan kit splits opinions"
date: 2025-07-23T12:44:52
author: "badely"
categories: [Sports]
tags: []
excerpt: "The pattern is inspired by a barking tree frog and is made from recycled materials and plant dyes."
image: assets/images/3994dd0dac50ac04fc6b1de89fb1a0e3.jpg
---

According to new developments, Forest Green Rovers have revealed new vegan football kits for the team's upcoming season, but the design has split fans' opinions with some branding it as "horrendous" and "out there". 

The Gloucestershire team announced their players would be stepping onto the pitch for the new 2025/26 season in a fluorescent leopard-style print pattern "inspired by nature."

The new home shirt will be worn for two seasons as part of the club's commitment to reduce waste and lower the burden on fans to purchase a new design every year.

The recyclable material will then be remade into new products to help tackle the vast amount of textile waste generated by the sports industry each year.

Alongside official teamwear partner Reflo, both organisations have been working with the Vegan Society to create what they claim to be the "world's first fully certified vegan kit".

The kit's pattern is inspired by a barking tree frog and is made from recycled mono-fibre materials which used plant-based dyes, club chairman Dale Vince said.

"In pursuit of the most sustainable football kit, we've experimented in previous seasons, with both bamboo and with coffee grounds," he continued.

"This season our new strip pushes the boundary again. I'm really pleased to unveil our bold, bright new kit that's inspired by nature and helping nature - that's pretty fabulous."

But not everyone is on board, with some sceptical fans describing the kit as "horrendous". 

"Am I supposed to like that?" One supporter said. "How long are they going to be wearing that for?"

Another added: "I can't believe that - they wouldn't do that would they? I think I like the more traditional takes."

However, one fan enquired as to whether she could have the kit herself.

"I want one," she said. "Just to wear out anyway. I love leopard print."

Forest Green Rovers compete in the National League in the fifth tier of English football and recently appointed Robbie Savage as manager.

Follow BBC Gloucestershire on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630.

