---
layout: post
title: "Big News: Man Utd, Latestcastle... or neither? Sesko's choices and why striker is in demand"
date: 2025-08-05T13:01:54
author: "badely"
categories: [Sports]
tags: []
excerpt: "The pros and cons of striker Benjamin Sesko joining Manchester United or Newcastle - or choosing to stay at RB Leipzig."
image: assets/images/1fdeff9b14116de324ce0facbc7e6294.jpg
---

It has been recently reported that Benjamin Sesko has scored 27 Bundesliga goals in his two seasons at RB Leipzig

With the start of the season fast approaching, the Benjamin Sesko transfer saga needs to reach a conclusion one way or the other fairly soon - and it remains unclear which way it will end.

Manchester United and Newcastle United have both made big-money bids for the Leipzig striker - and are waiting for an answer.

German newspaper Bild, external claims Sesko has told both clubs they are his first choice - but BBC Sport has been told he is keen on a move to the Red Devils.

But there are pros and cons for each team - namely whether either of the Premier League sides are actually in a position to sign him.

And where would he be more likely to get game time?

One thing seems sure - big, strong, quick and a clinical finisher - the Slovenian could be a difference-maker wherever he ends up. 

BBC Sport has a look at his options.

Man Utd's number one target - is this finally the summer of Sesko?

Have they actually made a bid? Can they?

Manchester United made their first formal offer for Sesko on Tuesday.

BBC Sport chief football news reporter Simon Stone reports it is an initial fee of £65.2m, rising to £73.8m.

They had been thought to want to be sure Sesko wanted to join them before making their move.

Old Trafford sources say they do not have to sell players before making more signings - but do accept finance will have to be generated by several players unwanted by Ruben Amorim.

Why would Sesko want to join them?

Sesko would be a likely starter at one of the world's biggest clubs if he joined Manchester United.

Rasmus Hojlund, also aged 22, has only scored 14 Premier League goals in two seasons since his £64m move from Atalanta.

By contrast Sesko has scored 27 Bundesliga goals in that time, having joined Leipzig from Salzburg in the same summer.

"Although many external United observers feel any spare income would be better spent on a physical, energetic central midfielder, Ruben Amorim spent most of last season moaning about his side's inability to score often enough," said Stone.

"Clearly he feels an upgrade is required on Rasmus Hojlund at the top of the pitch. To that end, United are willing to listen to offers for Hojlund, which may end up being part of their negotiations with RB Leipzig."

And he could be part of an all-new front line with Matheus Cunha, a summer signing from Wolves, and ex-Brentford man Mbeumo joining for about £130m in total this summer.

He could get plenty of service from the three players nearest him if he was the focal point up top.

Bruno Fernandes created more chances than any other Premier League player last season - 91 - with his team-mates scoring 10 of them.

Mbeumo was fifth on the list, creating 70 chances for Brentford team-mates, and Cunha was 15th, with 57 opportunities laid on for Wolves players.

Why might Sesko not want to join them?

There are some fairly obvious reasons why Sesko might decide Old Trafford would not be the best destination to keep his career on this upward trajectory.

For one, they are not in any European competition this season. Sesko has played in the Champions League in three of the past four seasons, and the Europa League in the other.

And he would be joining a team who finished 15th last season, their worst campaign since they were relegated in 1973-74.

Boss Amorim has been given the opportunity to rebuild this summer, having only taken over midway through last season - but a bad start could see a managerial change too.

And Sesko would have to buck a fairly dramatic trend. There is a very strong argument that Portugal midfielder Fernandes is the only outright success United have had in the transfer market since 2016.

Have they actually made a bid? Can they?

Newcastle have made an offer of about £70m to sign Sesko and are still in discussions with Leipzig.

They want him even if star striker Alexander Isak stays at the club - having previously tried to sign Hugo Ekitike from Eintracht Frankfurt to play with the Swede.

Ekitike instead joined Liverpool, who incidentally want Isak and have had a £110m bid rejected by the Magpies.

Why would Sesko want to join them?

For one Sesko would be back in the Champions League if he were to join Newcastle, with the Magpies finishing fifth last season.

He would be joining a seemingly upwardly mobile club - having ended their 56-year trophy drought by winning the Carabao Cup.

Sesko has spent most of his time at Leipzig playing in a front two with Lois Openda - who was the second quickest player in the Bundesliga last season.

So he would relish the opportunity to build a strike partnership with Isak - if he stays with the Magpies.

And he could get plenty of chances too, with the second and third top assisters in the Premier League last season supplying him from the wings.

Jacob Murphy had 12 assists with Anthony Elanga providing 11 for Nottingham Forest before his £55m move to Tyneside.

Why might Sesko not want to join them?

Whether Isak stays or goes could be seen as win-win or lose-lose for Sesko.

If he goes, Sesko would be pretty much guaranteed the chance to start every game. But he may worry about the ambition of the club if they have just lost a key player.

Likewise, if Isak stays, there is the danger he struggles for game time if Eddie Howe decides against a front two, or it is not successful, with Isak unlikely to be shoved out to the wing to make room for Sesko.

Also if playing in the Champions League is a priority, he joins a team who have never been in the tournament proper in consecutive seasons - and never reached the knockout stages.

This is only their third season in Europe since 2006–07.

This video can not be played

Isak wants to 'win Champions League, not play in it' - Warnock

Could Leipzig still keep him?

Leipzig do not need to sell Sesko - hence the high fee they are asking for, plus the reported desire for add-ons.

They are having a summer rebuild, however, under new 37-year-old head coach Ole Werner.

Six signings have come in so far for a combined £80m - but they are yet to make a major sale to free up funds.

However, Chelsea are trying to sign Leipzig's attacking midfielder Xavi Simons in what would be a big-money move.

Why would Sesko want to stay?

Sesko might not be opposed to a third season at Leipzig, where he could play every game and try to improve on last season - where he scored one Bundesliga goal fewer than he did the previous campaign (13 v 14).

But the major upside to staying might be waiting another season to see whether any established Champions League clubs could sign him.

His fee means not many sides can afford him right now.

But Bayern Munich striker Harry Kane is 32 and Barcelona frontman Robert Lewandowski is 36. So next season they might start looking to the future.

Sesko has been linked to both sides before.

Real Madrid's central striking options depend on less experienced options and Kylian Mbappe - so they may revisit things too.

And he has also been linked to Arsenal - before they signed Viktor Gyokeres - and Chelsea this summer.

So could Sesko take a 'wait and see what is on the table next summer' approach?

Why might Sesko not want to stay?

Of course Sesko may well feel his apprenticeship at Leipzig - and Red Bull clubs in general, having started at Salzburg - has been served.

They are not in any European competition this season.

He has consistently been linked to Premier League clubs in each transfer window for the past few years, despite only being 22, so the time might have come to take the plunge.

On top of that if Leipzig have a new-look team and manager, this might be the time to go.

And his strike partner Openda has also been linked with a move away - with Sunderland recently rumoured as a possible destination.

Listen to the latest Football Daily podcast

Get football news sent straight to your phone

