---
layout: post
title: "Big News: 'It was a rough year' - Schauffele wins first title for 14 months"
date: 2025-10-12T08:26:51
author: "badely"
categories: [Sports]
tags: []
excerpt: "Xander Schauffele wins his first title since last year's Open Championship at the Baycurrent Classic in Japan."
image: assets/images/892b1a72db2b0a47feb577f7c98d293a.jpg
---

Experts revealed that Xander Schauffele's victory was his 10th PGA Tour title

Baycurrent Classic - final round leaderboard

-19 X Schauffele (US); -18 M Greyserman (US); -16 M Thorbjornsen (US); -14 A Smalley (US), T Kanaya (Jpn), R Hoey (Phi), G Higgo (SA), B-H An (Kor)

Selected others: -11 M Wallace (Eng); -10 C Morikawa (US), M McCarty (US), R Hoejgaard (Den)

Xander Schauffele won his first title since last year's Open Championship at the Baycurrent Classic in Japan.

American Schauffele carded a final-round 64, featuring eight birdies, to finish one shot clear of compatriot Max Greyserman on 19-under at Yokohama Country Club.

It was Schauffele's first event since the United States' Ryder Cup defeat by Europe at Bethpage Black in New York.

The 31-year-old struggled with a rib injury at the start of the year which disrupted the momentum generated by his 2024 Open victory at Royal Troon, which came only two months after his maiden major win at the PGA Championship.

Schauffele said he "definitely had doubts" about whether he would win another title again.

"I think every player in any sport, at some point in time you feel like you're on top of the world and then you feel like, not that you've lost it, but you feel less confident," said the American, who won Olympic gold in Tokyo in 2021.

"It was a rough year but my team dragged me through it. They pick me up when I'm down.

"Hopefully I'm catching my stride. It was a big learning experience with the injury this year."

Schauffele added that it was "special" to win in Japan, where his mother grew up and his grandparents still live.

Michael Thorbjornsen, who briefly tied for the lead after an eagle at the fourth hole, finished three strokes behind Schauffele in third on 16 under par.

Schauffele's Ryder Cup team-mate Collin Morikawa finished tied for 14th on 10 under.

American Matt McCarty had the round of the day, hitting 12 birdies - including eight in a row on the back nine - for a final-round 11-under 60, with only a bogey at the 18th denying him a sub-60 round.

US Ryder Cup fans probably crossed line - Morikawa

Venue's bid to host Ryder Cup with £170m upgrade

