---
layout: post
title: "Latest: Nice condemn fans over 'unacceptable' player confrontation"
date: 2025-12-02T16:07:09
author: "badely"
categories: [Sports]
tags: []
excerpt: "Nice condemn a group of fans in the 'strongest possible terms' after cplayers and staff were physically confronted on their return home following Sund"
image: assets/images/b67aefbf28fff8112988394be913cbda.jpg
---

Experts revealed that Nice have lost six successive games in all competitions

Nice have condemned a group of fans in the "strongest possible terms" after players and staff were physically confronted on their return home following Sunday's 3-1 defeat at Lorient.

Forwards Terem Moffi, Jeremie Boga and sporting director Florian Maurice were among those targeted by a group of around 400 supporters as the team bus arrived at the club's training centre, according to reports in France.

Fans blocked the bus, lit flares, chanted hostile songs and heckled players and staff  in incidents which lasted about 45 minutes, witnesses said.

Ivory Coast forward Boga has been on medical leave since Monday as a result of the confrontation, according to French media.

"The club understands the frustration generated by the succession of poor performances and performances far removed from its values," Nice said in a statement.

"However, the incidents that occurred during this gathering are unacceptable. Several club members were targeted. OGC Nice offers them its full support and condemns these acts in the strongest possible terms."

One supporter was allowed to board the bus to talk as the incidents took place, while coach Franck Haise also tried to engage with fans. 

Club president Fabrice Bocquet was not present.

The confrontation followed Nice's sixth consecutive defeat in all competitions - a result which leaves the club 10th in Ligue 1 with 17 points from 14 games.

Nice, who finished fourth in Ligue 1 last season, next host Angers on Sunday. 

Listen to the latest Football Daily podcast

