---
layout: post
title: "New: Malaysia and Indonesia block Musk's Grok over explicit deepfakes"
date: 2026-01-12T05:21:33
author: "badely"
categories: [Technology]
tags: []
excerpt: "Sexualised images of real people generated by Grok have circulated on X in recent weeks."
image: assets/images/1eaa2d387b71977b5730544e7d549466.jpg
---

According to new developments, Malaysia and Indonesia have blocked access to Elon Musk's artificial intelligence (AI) chatbot Grok over its ability to produce sexually explicit deepfakes.

Grok, a tool on Musk's X platform, allows users to generate images but has recently  been used to edit images of real people to show them in revealing outfits.

The South East Asian countries said Grok could be used to produce pornographic and non-consensual images involving women and children. They are the first in the world to ban the AI tool.

There is also growing pressure to block Grok in the UK, with its technology secretary saying she would back the move, leading Musk to accuse the government of wanting to suppress free speech.

Malaysia and Indonesia's communications ministries announced their move against Grok in separate statements over the weekend.

The Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission said on Sunday that it issued notices to X earlier in the year to seek tighter measures after it found "repeated misuse" of Grok to generate harmful content.

But in its response, X failed to address the inherent risks of its platform's design and focused mainly on the reporting process for users, the regulator said.

It added that Grok will be blocked until effective safeguards are implemented and urged the public to report harmful online content.

Using Grok to produce sexually explicit content is a violation of human rights, dignity and online safety, Meutya Hafid, Indonesia's communications and digital affairs minister, said in a post on Instagram.

The ministry has also asked Musk's X to provide a clarification on the use of Grok.

Indonesian authorities have cracked down on other online sources of pornographic material in recent years, with platforms such as OnlyFans and Pornhub already banned in the country.

Indonesian X users who found their manipulated pictures on the platform said they felt angry that this was allowed to happen.

Kirana Ayuningtyas, a wheelchair user who posts online about her daily experiences, found that a stranger had commented on her picture with a prompt asking for Grok to depict her wearing a bikini.

Ayuningtyas said she adjusted her privacy settings and contacted the platform to get the image removed prevent users from editing her photos.

"Unfortunately, none of that really worked," she said, adding that it was hard to tell if someone out there is holding on to the images.

She asked her friends to report the accounts that published her faked images, but doing so meant even more people see the edited images, which is deeply embarrassing for her.

The BBC has contacted the Grok platform for comment. 

The use of Grok to generate sexualised images has been condemned by leaders worldwide, including UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer, who called it "disgraceful" and "disgusting".

The country's Technology Secretary Liz Kendall has also said she would back regulator Ofcom if it blocks UK access to Elon Musk's social media site X for failing to comply with online safety laws.

She said the UK's Online Safety Act "includes the power to block services from being accessed in the UK, if they refuse to comply with UK law" and "if Ofcom decide to use those powers they will have our full support".

