---
layout: post
title: "Latest: No 10 welcomes updates X is addressing Grok deepfakes"
date: 2026-01-14T14:44:53
author: "badely"
categories: [Business]
tags: []
excerpt: "The use of the AI tool to digitally undress women has sparked a backlash as well as intervention from the government and regulator."
image: assets/images/1fc9d4a2f4373434c7673486a40156b1.jpg
---

According to new developments, The Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer has told MPs he welcomes reports that X is taking action over sexualised deepfakes produced by its AI tool, Grok.

Sir Keir told MPs he had been informed X was "acting to ensure full compliance with UK law" - but his spokesman later clarified he did not have any new information from the firm but was instead responding to media reports.

There has been a fierce backlash to the images made using Grok and widely shared on X. 

It prompted the regulator Ofcom to launch an investigation on Monday and the government to announce it will enforce a law criminalising the creation of non-consensual deepfakes.

The Telegraph has reported that Grok has now stopped responding to requests to produce sexualised images of women and girls.

X has not responded to a comment request from the BBC about that report. It is also yet to comment on Sir Keir's remarks.

It has previously pointed to a statement posted by its Safety account: "Anyone using or prompting Grok to make illegal content will suffer the same consequences as if they upload illegal content."

Responding to a question from Labour MP Emily Darlington during prime minister's questions, Sir Keir repeated his condemnation of Grok as "disgusting" and said Ofcom had ministers' full backing to act if X did not.

He said: "To update the House, I have been informed this morning that X is acting to ensure full compliance with UK law.

"If so, that is welcome, but we're not going to back down, and they must act.

"We will take the necessary measures. We will strengthen existing laws and prepare for legislation if it needs to go further, and Ofcom will continue its independent investigation."

Afterwards, his official spokesman said there had been no contact between Sir Keir and X.

"What the prime minister said in the House is that there has been some indication that X has taken action to address the issues raised," his official spokesman said.

He added: "If so, that is welcome, so it's a qualified welcome."

On Monday, Ofcom said it had launched a formal investigation into X due to "deeply concerning reports" of the chatbot being used to create and share undressed images of people, as well as "sexualised images of children".

If found to have broken the law, Ofcom can potentially issue X with a fine of up to 10% of its worldwide revenue or £18 million, whichever is greater.

And if X does not comply, Ofcom can seek a court order to force internet service providers to block access to the site in the UK altogether.

In a post on X on Wednesday, Musk said that he was "not aware" of any naked underage images generated by Grok.

"When asked to generate images, it will refuse to produce anything illegal, as the operating principle for Grok is to obey the laws of any given country or state," he said.

