---
layout: post
title: "Big News: Fake romance to missed deliveries - How to protect yourself from three common scams"
date: 2026-06-21T23:10:16
author: "badely"
categories: [Business]
tags: []
excerpt: "Romance and investment fraud is at record levels but what can you do to prevent being caught out."
image: assets/images/9c97aef33bf6f407dd10154616c5559f.jpg
---

Experts revealed that Nobody thinks they will become the victim of a scam, until they are.

A record four million cases of fraudsters stealing money were registered last year, according to UK Finance, a banking trade body - with plenty more going unreported.

Sam Little, a 35-year-old former contestant of BBC show The Traitors, revealed last week he had lost £40,000 in life savings to a phishing scam. "I like to think I'm savvy, but it can catch anyone," he said.

Here are three of the most popular tricks used by fraudsters and how to avoid them.

The scam: "Hi Mum, I've got a new phone" or messages about missed deliveries.

Fraudsters send out mass messages suggesting that the recipient needs to update their details. It is just a way of harvesting vital banking details in order to steal money.

In the case of the "Hi Mum" text, the message is usually followed by an urgent request to send money. Banks reported a surge in "Hi Dad" scams in the run-up to Father's Day.

Messages about missed deliveries usually include a link which, when clicked on, take the recipient to an official-looking website. 

It is run by fraudsters and gathers banking information which is then used in so-called remote-purchase fraud - when criminals buy things from stolen card details. Some £423m was lost this way last year, according to UK Finance.

How to avoid it: Type, don't tap.

Experts urge people to avoid tapping on links. If a message claims to be from, for example, Royal Mail, then type out the genuine Royal Mail website.

Card details can be stolen in many different ways, such as through data breaches. But fraudsters often need a One-Time Passcode (OTP) to complete a theft. These should be treated as carefully as bank details and never given to someone who calls pretending to authorise a transaction.

It may seem obvious, but fraudsters are skilled in keeping you on the phone for ages to trick you into giving the number. 

The scam: "I love you, can you send money so I can visit you." The victim joins a dating website, chats to someone with whom they build a relationship over time, until eventually there is a request for money.

On average victims of romance scams, which are at a record high, send 10 payments to the fraudster. Some never accept their loved one isn't real. 

The fraudster uses fake pictures, often taken from the profiles of people innocently posting on social media. 

After being groomed, victims are told of an accident, or the supposed partner needing help to pay for a ticket to meet up.

How to avoid it: It isn't very romantic, but when meeting someone on a dating website put their picture in a reverse image search. 

Most search engines have that as an option, and it might show whether they are telling the truth about who they are.

Experts also urge people never to send money to someone they haven't met, and to be open with family and friends over questions they may have about the "relationship".

The scam: "This investment opportunity won't last for long," says a celeb, promising rapid and generous returns.

But the celeb is AI generated by fraudsters. In some cases, criminals have even used the technology to mimic the voice of family and friends.

Investment fraud losses are also at record levels.

How to avoid it: Fraudsters always inject a sense of urgency, but taking time over any decision is crucial.

A genuine financial firm should be authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), so visit the regulator's firm checker tool.

Contact details, such as the website, listed on the checker should be used rather than any links seen on social media which could lead you to a spoof site.

There are more tips on how to protect yourself, and information on how to report it, in the government's Stop Think Fraud campaign, and the Take Five to Stop Fraud website.

Get our flagship newsletter with all the headlines you need to start the day. Sign up here.

